Welcome again.
This is going to be a longer video but very meaningful because we'll have our character running around
in a way that makes sense starting and stopping and spinning on the spot.
So let's jump in and get started.
Let's start by looking our player so click on your player and we can see that if we go to our players
animator we have a animated controller.
We've created this already but I haven't put it in yet.
So let's click on the selector and then add our character.
So that means the animated controller which contains our blend tree that we have here is now attached
to our animator which is attached to our player.
Now for the Avatar we don't need to go to a lot of details for this.
All you need to know at this point is that it's a mapping between the bones in the character that the
whoever the creator of this character was the bones in the arms and stuff.
And what unity is expecting in terms of its animation system.
So for the Avatar we've been provided this already is part of our asset pack and we're going to use
the characters polygon Knights avatar that has been provided.
OK.
So you say you don't need to know a lot about Avatar but just know that we need to have the avatar and
if you're putting the wrong Avatar then whacky things can happen because it's the mapping between the
the animation system and the particular character we're using.
The other thing while here just make sure that apply Root Motion is not checked.
So leave it unchecked.
Basically if we apply Root Motion then the animation system itself will drive where our character goes.
So if the animation says take two steps forward then our character he will take two steps forward.
We're doing it the other way round for the moment where we're saying our nav mesh agent is saying take
two steps forward and then we want our animation to look accurate that is taking two steps forward.
So leave apply Root Motion clicked off.
Now the other thing we'll do while we're here is just rename while clicked on a player and clicked within
our animator window here.
Make sure you clicked on blend free if you can see locomotion.
They need a double click on that to get into the blend free click on blend free click on blend and then
slowly click on it a second time.
We're renaming it if he does right click there's no rename option is one of those wacky ones you have
to click and then do another slow click and we can rename this to forward speed because that essentially
is what we're doing here we're saying how fast are we moving forward if I click play and just move around
a little bit here.
How fast are my moving forward on this.
Which for our character is the z axis z or z axis.
So forward is Z.
That's all the character can do.
I want to show you for a little bit of context some terminology just so I know you're really clear what
we're up to at the moment.
So that will give me using the term velocity and velocity is essentially the rate of change of our position
over time.
Or put another way it's the speed and the direction of something.
So for example a car travelling north at 50 kilometers an hour.
That is its velocity its speed is 50 kilometers out an hour and its velocity is north of 50 kilometers
an hour.
And our nav mesh agent that we've implemented already is thinking in terms of velocity it's saying I've
got a direction that I want to move and a speed with which I want to travel there and our characters
locomotion animations.
So it's idle it's walk and it's run are only interested in the forward speed along the z axis.
You can see as we speed up and slow down it's just changing the the blend of the animation that we've
hooked up already.
And if we look at what's happening at the moment I'm sure you've click play already but let's click
playing to see what's going on when we click play our player just slides around and stays in the idle
state.
What I'll do while I'm here actually just move the camera in a little bit.
So I got to make sure that my character is position at 0 0 0.
Cool.
Make sure that my follow camera is also positioned at 0 0 0 so that I know it's pointing right at the
character if I click on the main camera I can see the characters in the middle bit too far away so I'm
going scroll out where I can see the camera while clicked on the main camera just going to find the
access that will bring it towards the character which I think is the blue square here between the Y
and Z and just bring it on closer into the player so if you're holding that space in the middle it's
moving on two axes at the same time.
That's pretty good nice and close and just a little bit left to right.
Okay.
Now when I click on play it should be somewhat centered and a little bit closer.
But we're flying around we're doing this little glide.
So let's talk about how we can make our player actually run.
So our goal here in this instance first of all is to get the global velocity from the nav mesh agents
and then a mesh agent knows how fast our plane needs to be going and where it needs to be going.
Next we need to convert this velocity into a local value relative to the character.
So what I mean by that is the characters are interested in I need to run forward I need to turn left.
I need to turn right and the velocity we're getting from the nav mesh agent isn't giving it to us in
terms of turn left turn right it's giving it to us in terms of you need to head to the x y z coordinates
in this direction.
So we need to convert it into something that the character knows which is going to be the local value
for the character and then we need to set the animators blend value to be equal to our desired forward
speed.
So in other words if we want to run fast we have maximum speed for an hour and so we have a slow speed
and want to give you a little bit of context here as well.
So if you find the animations that we've been given so click on animations unarmed you'll see that we
have the three in their idle run and walk.
I'm just expanding them out here.
The animation itself is the the gray box with the play button on it.
You see when we click on that we get this generic Avatar.
We should.
But the main thing I'm interested in here if you just pop that guy out of the way you can see under
the all the information on a particular piece of animation down the bottom here average velocity 0 0
0.
So that's X Y and Z.
It's saying at idle we're not expecting the player to change the transform from where it is maybe wobbling
a bit on the ground but not actually to move anywhere in the world.
If we click on run you'll see that the average velocity is zero zero and five point six six two.
So this is what the animation is wanting us to do at full run full speed run.
It's expecting us to be moving with a velocity in the z direction of five point six six two and then
for walk it is one point five five eight.
Now something a little bit nifty we can do when we click on our blend tree.
You can see at the moment we've got our walks at 2.5 and our run set to 1.
What I could do in here is manually add in the values that I just found that our animation system thinks
is our walk and thinks is our run or I can click off animate thresholds and compute thresholds where
I compute based on velocity Z when I click that you can see that our threshold is now one point five
five and five point six six exactly as our animations was expecting and told us it was expecting in
terms of those velocities which is really cool.
And that means that as we drag forward I'm going to click on play here as we drag forward when we're
at one point five five.
It's the sweet spot for walking And when we're all the way up to five point six six.
That's where it's expecting to be running.
Now it's going to correspond when we click back over on the player we find the nav mesh agent.
So then ambush agent we've got a speed here.
If the speed is greater than five points six six then the nav mesh agent's going to say move a whole
bunch of speed but the animation says well I was only expecting to go five point six six man so I just
can't keep up with you.
So in here I'm going to put in five point six six as our speed and say that is the maximum speed with
our current configuration that I want my player to be running across here.
And if I want my play to be moving with any more speed than that then I'll need to alter my animation
so speed my animation up or vice versa versus going to have go slower than I need to do something with
my animation which we can do.
But for now we're just going to go for a nice basic five point six x speed based upon the animations
that we've been given.
Okay.
So let's make all this happen let's make our characters animation update.
Just a reminder of what we're doing here.
If you're filling advanced you can take on this as a challenge.
I've got a more simple tuning based challenge for this.
This lecture.
But if you want to take this on if you're feeling advanced then by all means.
This is your challenge to take on otherwise.
Let's go through this together by starting off and opening up our movie script scenario scripts open
up mover and the first thing we need to do is what we need to on update.
We need to be changing the animation of our player so after we've figured out where it is we wish to
move to.
So let's call a method in here we'll create just in a moment we will name it update animator semicolon
and down the very bottom underneath move to cursor we will see if I may line twenty nine.
We will create a private void update and a meter parentheses.
Okay.
And our curly braces.
And then a reminder of what we're trying to achieve we want to first get the global velocity from our
NAV mesh agent.
So how we gonna do that.
Well we're going to create a variable of type vector 3 which we'll call velocity and that will equal
get component component what component do you think it is a little micro challenge for you if you've
been paying attention it should be easy.
It's the nav mesh agent component and then parentheses dot velocity semicolon and then as I mentioned
in my steps next we need to convert this into a local value relative to the character.
So the way that we do that is again creating ourselves a vector 3 we'll call this local velocity and
that will equal a slightly new concept.
I'll show you something here which is transform dot in this transform Di erection and then what are
we going to pass in we're gonna pass in the velocity that we wish to be doing our inverse transform
direction direction on survival the velocity and semicolon Fiona read up more about transform inverse
transform direction basically it's taking from global and converting into local but jumping to the unity
docs I've given you a link against this lecture if you want to know a little bit more about that but
that's pretty much its function in life and just a quick message from Rick from the future I've had
a lot of people ask me why are we doing this.
Why are we converting from global to local one when we're creating our velocity our NAV mesh dot velocity
that we're storing as the velocity variable within this update animator method we are grabbing the global
coordinates so though the global velocity and it might be an X is 273 and Y is 57 and the velocity is
changing at a particular rate that shows us where we are within the world within world space.
And that's not so useful for our animator our animated just wants to know dude am I running forward
or am I not running forward.
So we need to use this mechanism the inverse transform direction allows us to say no matter where you
are in the world let's convert that into a local velocity so that we can say to our animator you're
moving in a forward direction at for example at three units or your currently moving forward at five
units so that we can make it meaningful for our animator.
And when it is in global the global values which is what we get when we're doing our NAV mesh agent
dot velocity is giving us the the global values.
That's not as useful.
We can't use that for from a local point of view to tell our animator what to do.
Okay.
So I just wanted to give you a little bit more flavor on that and let you know why it is that we need
to do that step from global to local.
And now we create ourselves a float called speed that we're going to be using when we update our animator
and that will be equal what are we interested in just the local velocity dot z because all we want to
know is the Z speed how fast I should be moving in a forward direction.
The final step will have a look on my list here set the animators blend value to be equal to our desired
forward speed.
If you remember this is our forward speed that we've created here that's gonna go from zero to five
point six six and the way that we do that is get component and then which component do you think we're
updating in here.
It's the animator parentheses dot will you sit float and in here we're passing in the string reference
and course we're gonna mess up the string reference unless we go over here and copy it.
So go back into unity find forward speed copy that so you get it exactly buttoned up and then paste
that in string references.
Not ideal but sometimes you gotta use them and you want to make sure that you are very careful when
you do comma speed so quick recap we're getting the velocity from the nav mesh agent we're using inverse
transform direction to make that a local velocity so it's meaningful for the character and then we're
creating a variable called speed that we're going to pass into our set float animator in relation to
the forward speed of the animation which is the local velocity dot Z.
Okay save that up head over into unity see if this all works click on planning him as I'm a little bit
of spice here for this big moment of excitement click on play.
Okay.
And as we move the play goes from stopped to moving and you can see we've got some DELIGHTFULLY BAD
motion going on there at the moment which is great but this is working.
You can see down the bottom here the forward speed is going from zero for this run in a straight line
going to zero up to five point six six and then returning back again.
Now turning around is a big problem.
So that is something I'm going to give it to you as a challenge is to go into the player find the nav
mesh agent and your character's movement so that it turns and accelerates in a way that feels good for
you.
So pause the video take on that challenge and I'll see you back here when you done okay.
Making RPG has a lot of tuning and tweaking in it.
So he's just starting that journey very exciting speed we're leaving at five point six six.
The angular speed and acceleration have a relationship to one another.
When I do this in play mode so I can play around with it as we go you can see a lot of the issue here
is how I turn.
I'm not starting to run quick and off it's all looking a little bit messy so my angular speed I going
to see what happens if I increase that to say 1000 okay.
He turns around a lot faster and starts moving a lot quicker that looks better.
Let's see what happens when we crank it up to say 5000.
Okay.
Yep.
That's feeling a bit better didn't seem to make a huge amount of difference.
Acceleration what happens if we drop that down to say 10.
My guess that is the wrong direction because it's the acceleration of turning as as well as acceleration
of running in a new direction.
So I got to pump that back up the other way say 50 OK.
That's a pretty good turn.
He's got a pretty abrupt stop but he's taking a couple of steps the end you save on battling a whole
bunch of enemies.
Click click click.
Attack attack move run.
Let's make sure that it works with the nav mesh agent.
I'm going to click on the navigation button and then you can see when we're doing that.
You can see this nav mesh information with the gizmo make sure you get your gizmos turned on you can
see what part of the navigation wants to go to and this blue line is the nav mesh agents vector that
is saying let's go in this direction and then our character animation is updating to head in that direction.
It's all looking pretty good.
So a reminder again of the values that I had in there.
Back on My player of course I didn't save that but no worries I was remembering and I had 5000 and my
acceleration I had 50 and then I'm going to click on player and click on the overrides button apply
also this applies back to the prefab.
Fantastic.
Awesome work so far and I'll see you in the next lecture.